The sciences have always sought valid data that is free of interpretation. It’s this data that the sciences are based on and continue to operate from. The most important aspect of scientific data is replication, can the data be repeated in similar conditions. This approach works for the sciences, yet when it is applied to the digital humanities the approach fails to provide concrete solutions. The digital humanities cannot assume that data is unquestionable, questions must be asked about the metrics and values of data that is presented. Reliance on indisputable data is unnecessary for the scholarship in the field to scale up.

It is important the signify the difference between the sciences and humanities as there is a reason why the two are sperate disciplines. The sciences are based upon the quantification of the world around us. The information gained is used by humans to create a better understanding of the world. The humanities are the study of human society and culture. Two aspects of humanity which are constantly fluctuating and inconsistent. The nature of human society is one that changes and evolves over generations. Where the sciences focus on the quantifiable the humanities focus on unquantifiable ideas and relations of groups of humans. Some digital humanists have taken the approach of using data as a means to question everything else and call for interpretation. One such humanist is Franco Moretti who has embraced this approach: ‘I began this article by saying that quantitative data are useful because they are independent of interpretation; then, that they are interesting because they demand an interpretation; and now, most radically, we see them challenge existing interpretations, and ask for a theory, not so much of ‘the’ novel, but of a whole family of novelistic forms. A theory—of diversity.”(Moretti 91) Moretti places data as something independent of interpretation while everything else is subject to falsification. The question is then how could data be independent of interpretation. Data is not an undeniable truth that is impervious to scrutiny. A value is a value but how the value is collected and used are the questions that need to be answered when concerning data. The method in which data is collected can skew the value of data. Should data be collected improperly then the data itself loses validity. Once data is invalid than any argument that utilizes said data is considered invalid as well. Presenting data as something which cannot be falsified is ignorant. How can someone be sure that the data being presented is data that is truthful and accurate? The humanities focus on human society which is an area that is open to interpretation as every detail known about human society is not concrete. 

The visualization of the data should also be drawn into question as the visualization of data is interpreting the data into a new form. Steven Braun follows this line of thinking: “To think in these terms is to conceive of data communicated in visually or graphically motivated form – a data visualization – as constructed space, one in which the value of a visualization is inflected by the cultural and political forces embedded within the design choices of its creator and the interpretive act of the user.”(Braun 2) To expand this idea, if visualization is embedded with cultural and political forces by its creator then the same could be said about data being collected. A person is particularly situated within their culture and society, and it is this situation that affects their mindset and their work. To this end, data cannot be considered unquestionable since the data is linked to the person who collects and presents the data. The digital humanities do not need unquestionable data for the scholarship of the field to improve. As shown in the figure below, digital humanists discuss the humanities frequently yet the topic of data is considerably low between the humanists. When the digital humanities were created it did not rely on the data for its scholarship and it shows in current digital humanists. The digital humanities have attracted scholars from multiple different disciplines due to the open nature of the field. To certify the digital humanities firmly with the idea of unquestionable data would be counter-intuitive to the way the digital humanities presents itself.

<!--	Exported from Voyant Tools (voyant-tools.org).
The iframe src attribute below uses a relative protocol to better function with both
http and https sites, but if you're embedding this into a local web page (file protocol)
you should add an explicit protocol (https if you're using voyant-tools.org, otherwise
it depends on this server.
Feel free to change the height and width values or other styling below: -->
<iframe style='width: 637px; height: 507px;' src='https://voyant-tools.org/tool/Trends/?query=data&query=humanities&query=interpretat*&query=scholarship&corpus=26d4ce7c769ed5247b34fd7489a08430'></iframe>

To conclude, the digital humanities should not rely on unquestionable data. Since data is used by disciplines differently. The sciences collect quantifiable data that is replicable. Whereas the humanities deal with aspects of humanity that are, by nature, harder to quantify. Thus any data collected must be questioned since the methods of collection can vary between those collecting the data. As any visualization of data is embedded with the cultural and political forces of its creator. The data collected in the digital humanities field are inevitably linked with the collector in the method of collection. The digital humanities field attracts multiple different areas of study because it is not defined with a strict reliance on one particular method of study. The digital humanities is an independent discipline that should not seek to replicate the dependence on unquestionable data that is prevalent in the sciences.

### Works Cited

Braun, Steven. “Critically Engaging with Data Visualization through an Information Literacy Framework.” Digital Humanities Quarterly, vol. 12, 2018.

Moretti, Franco. “GRAPHS, MAPS, TREES.” New Left Review, vol. 24, 2003, pp. 67–93.
